Zephyr Modules: document changes & improvements in the workflow (#27185)
zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr: doc/guides/modules.rst

Zephyr build system, as described in more detail in other sections on
this page.

To be classified as a candidate for being included in the default list of
modules, an external project is required to have its own life-cycle outside
the Zephyr Project, that is, reside in its own repository, and have its own
contribution and maintainance workfow and release process. Zephyr modules

> should not contain code that is written exclusively for Zephyr.

Reviewer: Can you clarify the status of fixup code that might be provided on module waiting issue to be fixed and released in the original repo ?

Reviewer: This is answered below, nvm.

  .. note::

     Code which is written for Zephyr and works exclusively with Zephyr
     should not be submitted as a Zephyr module; instead, it should be
     part of the main Zephyr tree.

Modules to be included in the default manifest of the Zephyr project need to
provide functionality or features endorsed and approved by the project technical
steering committee and should comply with the
:ref:`module licensing requirements<modules_licensing>` and

> :ref:`contribute guidelines<modules_contributing>`. They should also have a

Reviewer 2: Also: the suggestion (requirement?) to squash all upstream commits to a single diff that incorporates unbounded amounts of material from multiple non-Zephyr contributes makes it impossible to verify the provenance of any specific change.  The maintainer submitting the squashed upstream material would in essence take legal as well as technical responsibility for everything that appears in it.

I can imagine very few cases where I would be willing to do that.

> :ref:`contribute guidelines<modules_contributing>`. They should also have a

Reviewer 3: The squashing method ('snapshot update') is currently used with mcumgr module and I am not in favor of it. I agree with @pabigot that it discards some information on where does change come from.

> :ref:`contribute guidelines<modules_contributing>`. They should also have a

Author: Answer to the second comment. 
This was discussed in the meeting, and although this has been identified as a "real" issue, there is no good alternative.

Note: when using the cherry-pick approach to synchronize with upstream, the module owner can add the original SHAs in the commits cherry-picked from upstream, so the original DCO can be derived.

In the "snapshot" approach this is, of course not possible. So the maintainer of the module _does_ have the full technical responsibility.

> :ref:`contribute guidelines<modules_contributing>`. They should also have a

Author: @pabigot 
>
Is it acceptable that an external module document its licensing terms, or do you mean to require that its development follow a specific process in order to support its licensing claims?

It is acceptable, yes. I think the note in this section clarifies this.
The licensing terms, however, need to be compliant with what we accept in zephyr.

Zephyr developer that is commited to maintain the module code base.

Zephyr depends on several categories of modules, including but not limited to:

- Debugger integration
- Silicon vendor Hardware Abstraction Layers (HALs)
- Cryptography libraries
- File Systems
- Inter-Process Communication (IPC) libraries

This page summarizes a list of policies and best practices which aim at
better organizing the workflow in Zephyr modules.

> Module Repositories

Reviewer 4: I think all this additional text actually belongs in the contributions guides: https://docs.zephyrproject.org/latest/contribute/index.html

and not in the `Modules (External project)` user guide.

The existing Module user guide is useful for a downstream developer who wants to include his own code/repository as a Zephyr module, but that information his now placed after a lot of text that is not relevant if you are creating you own module.

I would like to keep those two sections completely separated.

Feel free to drag the existing description into a `contribute/Modules` page.
https://docs.zephyrproject.org/latest/guides/modules.html#submitting-a-new-module

Author: Discussed in the meeting. 
I will keep the whole guide about module here, to make it easier for people to review the content, and after it is finalize, we will start the action of splitting the content in different areas in the project documentation.

Reviewer 4: @ioannisg I know, I just placed a comment here for all of those looking in github, but not attending the meeting, would know :wink:

*******************

* All modules included in the default manifest shall be hosted in repositories

>   under the Zephyr Project Github organization.

Author: applied, thanks.

> * Module repository names should follow the convention of using lowercase

Reviewer 5: This is a convention we have followed so far. We do link to the upstream repo directly in the description of each of the Zephyr project repos.

> * Module repository names should follow the convention of using lowercase

Reviewer 6: > This is a convention we have followed so far.

If we are grandfathering in exceptions, then clearly not.

> We do link to the upstream repo directly in the description of each of the Zephyr project repos.

So now I have to click around inside of https://github.com/zephyrproject-rtos instead of just copy/pasting the upstream repository name?

> * Module repository names should follow the convention of using lowercase

Author: This was discussed in the previous meeting.
@mbolivar-nordic we will change the policy as follows
- module repositories that are tracking existing external project repositories should have the exact name as upstream
- module repositories created in zephyr organization that are not directly tracking an external repository, e.g. tracking multiple ones, or tracking none (in case the ext project is maintained outside github) shall follow the proposed naming conventions.
- we don't retro-update existing module repositories.

Thanks. I will make this change.

> * Module repository names should follow the convention of using lowercase

Author: applied @mbolivar-nordic 

```
Module repository names should follow the convention of using lowercase
  letters and dashes instead of underscores. This rule will apply to all
  new module repositories, except for repositories that are directly
  tracking external projects hosted in Github; such module repositories
  may be named as their external project counterparts.
```

> * Module repository names should follow the convention of using lowercase

Reviewer 6: Thanks @ioannisg

  letters and dashes instead of underscores. This rule will apply to all
  new module repositories.

  .. note::

>      It is not required to modify the names of existing module repositories

Author: Agree with @aescolar and @pabigot , this can be rewritten, to be more clear.
Adopting the suggested phrase.

     to make them comply with the above naming convention.

* If the module has an external (upstream) project repository, the module
  repository should preserve the upstream repository folder structure.

> * Modules should use "zephyr" as the default name for the repository main

Reviewer 7: If you are going to fork modules as proposed here (which I would certainly try to avoid), a requirement should be to not  fork branches present in the upstream repository to avoid confusion.
(I do not see any problem with having replicas of upstream branches, but I would not keep a "master" in a module which has either diverged or is fully decoupled from the upstream "master")

Reviewer 8: I would say that some module might be pure mirror of its upstream - why to enforce zephyr branch then?

Author: @nvlsianpu @aescolar this was also discussed online. We favor having a common branch name for the default branch in module repositories. The enforced uniformity makes it easy for developers to browse the code in zephyr modules, and for maintainers and release engineers to perform updates in module repositories.

It is uncommon for modules to be pure mirrors of upstream, but even if they are, there is no particular reason why the main branch should be other than "zephyr".

> * Modules should use "zephyr" as the default name for the repository main

Author: Thanks, applied now.

  branch. Branches for specific purposes, for example, a module branch for
  an LTS Zephyr version, shall have names starting with the 'zephyr\_' prefix.

  .. note::

     It is **not** recommended in module repositories to have a 'master'

>      branch mirroring the master branch of the external repository.

Author: Thanks for the comment @daor-oti @pabigot 
This was discussed in the meeting.
The main reason for not having a mirror for upstream main branch (most likely "master") is to make sure there won't be any accidents with manifest SHAs pointing to a module's "master" branch instead of "zephyr".
It was discussed at the meeting that there is no particular advantage for a Maintainer in a module, to keep tracking the module's upstream master branch. It could only cause confusion downstream. 

We have also agreed that zephyr modules should not, really, maintain other branches than "zephyr", which is to be used in zephyr manifest.

What _is_ important for maintainers in modules is to add a second "remote" to be able to synchronize fro upstream, but they do not need to keep the upstream main branch downstream.

>      branch mirroring the master branch of the external repository.

Author: I will add a sentence for the rationale for not maintaining the upstream branch in the downstream repo.

.. _modules_synchronization:

Synchronizing with upstream
===========================

Requirements for allowed practices
----------------------------------

> Any changes to module repositories, as a result of synchronizing with,

Reviewer 3: "Changes to module repositories, including synchronization with upstream, can only be applied via pull requests."

> Any changes to module repositories, as a result of synchronizing with,

Author: Yes, thanks @de-nordic , that's much better.
@mbolivar ^^

> Any changes to module repositories, as a result of synchronizing with,

Reviewer 6: > @mbolivar ^^

@ioannisg please remember my new handle :)

upstream shall be brought in by pull requests. These pull requests

> shall be merg-able (i.e. with Rebase & Merge option, using Github UI).

Author: Fixed, thanks.

> This ensures that a linear history is preserved in the module repositories.

Author: @pabigot this will be discussed today, for a last iteration, and I'll give a note here.

> This ensures that a linear history is preserved in the module repositories.

Author: @pabigot 
I will add a sentence to justify this. In brief
- any changes to module repositories, need to be done with PRs. Here, we talk about synchronization only (that's because "normal" changes, e.g. bug fixes, are obviously brought in with PRs). The PRs shall be
    - mergable with Github's UI, which ensures clarity and transparency
    - verifiable via CI (CI triggers on the main repo with manifest pointing to module PR)
    - reviewed and approved properly.
Merge-able PRs ensure a proper level of visibility of what has changed, i.e. there's an easy (or less easy) way to get the list of commits between the old SHA and the new SHA in the .west manifest.

We must always be able to see, using GH's UI what has changed in between two manifest SHAs. This is a hard requirements agreed in the Process forum.

> I certainly hope that's consistent with the intent, because requiring us to do a rebase of the upstream changes onto the Zephyr head in order to update to a new version is a non-starter.

There is always the option of a simple single-commit diff; the "snapshot" solution, as a fall-back alternative.
We are also discussing a "merge"-based option where you still merge using GH UI.

> This ensures that a linear history is preserved in the module repositories.

Reviewer 2: OK, there was probably confusion there, because of this "linear history" thing.  There's nothing about github's UI that requires the absence of merge commits, with the material being merged being the upstream commits in their original form (SHA1).  In practice, I expect the merges in the Zephyr repo will discard that information, though, because they'll be rebased.

> This ensures that a linear history is preserved in the module repositories.

Author: Agree, this "linear" history term was confusing. What I wanted to convey is that we need linear, incremental downstream history, e.g. no re-writes, (no force-pushing), which would make SHAs disappear. 

> There's nothing about github's UI that requires the absence of merge commits

Yes, and in fact, merge commits will appear, anyways, if the upstream project allows merge commits.

Allowing downstream merge commits, and the associated upmerge policy with git merge, is under discussion, and if accepted, I will amend this documentation. 

I'll do the clarifications in this paragraph and will remove the "linear" term.

> This ensures that a linear history is preserved in the module repositories.

Author: @pabigot , changed to:
```
Changes to the main branch of a module repository, including synchronization
with upstream code base, can only be applied via pull requests. These pull
requests shall be *verifiable* by Zephyr CI and *mergable* (i.e. with Rebase
& Merge option, using Github UI). This ensures that the *downstream* module
repository history is incremental and always preserved (that is, it is never
re-written). This policy also allows to easily review the incoming changes
and run Zephyr CI, git lint, identity, and license checks directly on the set
of changes that are to be brought into the module repository.
```

> It also allows to easily review the incoming changea and run Zephyr CI,

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
It also allows to easily review the incoming changes and run Zephyr CI,
```

Author: Thanks, fixed now.

git lint, identity, and license checks directly on the set of changes
that are to be brought into the module.

.. note::

>      Force-pushing to a module's main branch is not allowed.

Reviewer 9: If by `main branch` we mean the `zephyr` branch, I think we need to clarify that here.

Author: I think it is claried: 
```
Modules should use "zephyr" as the default name for the repository main
  branch.
```

>      Force-pushing to a module's main branch is not allowed.

Author: Yes, I need to clarify this better. I will do this after the next Process meeting, when we will have all feedback received.

>      Force-pushing to a module's main branch is not allowed.

Author: > I'm going to read this narrowly: that it's not permitted to replace the HEAD of the zephyr branch. It is permitted to push directly to the zephyr branch without using the github UI buttons as long as the content pushed has met the mergeable criteria.
If that's not an acceptable interpretation clarification is required.

This is not allowed, according to the requirement of "visibility"and the set of incoming changes are always reviewable.

Changed again the text to capture the above:

```
Changes to the main branch of a module repository, including synchronization
with upstream code base, can only be applied via pull requests. These pull
requests shall be *verifiable* by Zephyr CI and *mergeable* (i.e. with Rebase
& Merge option, using Github UI). This ensures that the incoming changes are
always **reviewable**, and the  *downstream* module repository history is
incremental and always preserved (that is, it is never re-written). This
policy also allows to run Zephyr CI, git lint, identity, and license checks
directly on the set of changes that are to be brought into the module
repository.
```

> 

Author: I guess this is what we will be doing. "zephyr" will be the main branch,

> 

Author: addressed

Allowed practices
---------------------

> The following practices are allowed and should be followed in all modules.

Author: I don't think there's a case for commits not from upstream. These would be commits that just exist downstream and they are not part of "update".

Closing this comment, since it overlaps with earlier ones.

**Updating modules with a diff from upstream:**
Upstream changes brought as a single commit (manual diff) in a PR against
the module's main branch. This approach is simple and should be applicable
to all modules with the downside of supressing the upstream history in the

> module repository.

Author: > If you want this to be an option selected by the maintainer of the module, fine, but the option of using git the way it was designed (with merge commits) should be equally acceptable

We should iterate once more and close on this.

> If it's a requirement for all modules that commits on zephyr be this way then there should be text that allows another branch in the repository to be maintained using the code maintenance flow that normal use of git follows.

This was discussed. There is no clear reason for module repositories to have more branches, unless they are bound to specific Zephyr releases, e.g. an LTS.

The commit message is expected to identify the upstream repository, the
version to which the module is updated (upstream version, tag, commit,
etc.), and the reason for the doing the update.

> **Cherry picking upstream commits:**

Reviewer 3: We want to keep module source the same as upstream + our patches, that are needed for the module to work with zephyr, right? Because if we leave something out we may start to diverge and there will be problem. So, if we have to cherry pick everything at some point, from upstream to zephyr module, do we have to maintain the order of commits?

Reviewer 8: Would be better to said Rebase uspsteram commit? Rebase keeps commit sequence.
Especially `rebase --onto` should be used here.

Author: Yes, but I don't want to add git terms at this point. The important is to stress that we cherry pick _all_ commits. i.e. all new content. Tthe way this is done does not matter here.

I will add a sentence to make this more clear.

Reviewer 8: thansk @ioannisg

Upstream changes brought in by cherry-picking the upstream commits and

> submitting a PR with these commits against the module main branch. This

Author: that's right.

approach is applicable to modules with an upstream project Git repository.

> The main advantages of this approach are the following

Author: done

* the upstream repository history may be preserved in the module repository,
  if the cherry picked commits have a pointer to the original upstream commit
* downstream module patches are less likely to be unintentionally overwritten
  by the synchronization process.

> 

Reviewer 8: Why not have ** merge upstera commits ** option?
It is very simple to be used - just need to ensure descriptive message in the merge commit.
Such synchronization PR is always merged by push to the repo.
So fare I have been using this method for synchronize mcuboot repo.

Author: to be discussed.

Reviewer 10: I agree, I've used this method in OpenThread module so far as well. This allows to retain the upstream OT repo history and make synchronization points (merge commits) explicit.

Contributing to Zephyr modules
******************************

.. _modules_contributing:

Individual Roles & Responsibilities
===================================

To facilitate management of Zephyr module repositories, the following
individual roles are defined.

> **Administration:** Each Zephyr module shall have an administrator

Reviewer 11: This and the 'code ownership' roles, seem not to follow the MAINTAINERS.yml terminology and responsibilities, is that on purpose or should they not be similar?

Reviewer 2: I infer that this is a deviation based on the granularity of github permissions.  I don't think every module maintainer should be granted github administrator rights to all modules in `zephyrproject-rtos`.  I do think it would be best that the module maintainer be given administrator rights to the modules they maintain, which include the ability to temporarily remove any hooks that prevent (non-force) push directly to the `zephyr` branch rather than go through the UI (if the UI would do a rebase or add a new merge commit or other undesirable actions).  But that may not be possible (and may not be acceptable).

Reviewer 8: >  I do think it would be best that the module maintainer be given administrator rights to the modules they maintain, which include the ability to temporarily remove any hooks that prevent (non-force) push directly to the zephyr branch rather than go through the UI (if the UI would do a rebase or add a new merge commit or other undesirable actions). But that may not be possible (and may not be acceptable).

I'm agree with the above. Better to separate responsibilities precisely.
Also I'm using direct pushing for synchronizing zephyr MCUBoot repository with its upstream

Author: This was discussed in the meeting. The decision is to not give Admin or Merge rights to Module owners. 
For Admin, the reasoning is that the work could be done by the current Admins of the organization (it's not a lot of work anyways).
For Merge, the reasoning was that it does not help merging to the module branch, if one cannot update the Zephyr manifest.

Author: @mbolivar-nordic will apply the propose change.

who is responsible for managing access to the module repository,
for example, for adding individuals as Collaborators in the repository
at the request of the module code owner. Module administrators are

> members of the Administrators' team, that is a group of project

Author: done

> members with admin rights to Module Github repositories.

Author: For now it will be the zephyr-project-rtos administrators , but the policy is more flexible - it can be any other group of people with admin right on module repositories.
We need a team to administer the module repos, that's all.

> **Code ownership:** Each module shall have a code owner. Module code

Reviewer 2: Agree.  What's described here is a maintainer.

> **Code ownership:** Each module shall have a code owner. Module code

Author: Discussed that in last week's meeting @aescolar , and we will change this to Module owner (IIRC)

owners will have the overall responsibility of the contents of a
Zephyr module repository. In particular, a module code owner will

* coordinate code reviewing in the module repository
* be the default assignee in pull-requests against the repository's

>   main branch

Reviewer 11: So in modules, the 'code owner' is the same as a maintainer from the MAINTAINERS.yml?

Author: Sort of yes. Based on input by other reviewers, this will be renamed to Module Owner.
However, Module Owner is not classified as Maintainer, as defined in the TSC Project Roles. This is stressed.

* request additional collaborators to be added to the repository, as
  they see fit
* regularly synchronize the module repository with its upstream
  counterpart following the policies described in
  :ref:`modules_synchronization`
* be aware of security vulnerability issues in the external project
  and update the module repository to include security fixes, as
  soon as the fixes are available in the upstream code base
* list any known security vulnerability issues, present in the
  module code base, in Zephyr release notes.

  .. note::

     Module code owners are not required to be Zephyr
     :ref:`Maintainers <project_roles>`.

> **Merging:** The Zephyr Release Engineering team has the right and the

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
**Merger:** The Zephyr Release Engineering team has the right and the
```

Similar to "Administrator", "merging" is a responsibility, not a role.

Author: done

responsibility to merge pull requests in the main branch of a module

> repository.

Reviewer 7: This should say ".. once they have been approved by the module maintainer"

Reviewer 2: Ah.  I was assuming the module maintainer would be able to do merges of reviewed code, because that just makes sense.

Is there a process to get notify the release engineering team that there are PRs that need to be merged?  Or a page that provides a list of mergeable PRs in all module repositories?  Or is the maintainer expected to ping people on slack until it gets done?

Author: @aescolar thanks. I'll specify "approved pull requests"

Author: > Is there a process to get notify the release engineering team that there are PRs that need to be merged? Or a page that provides a list of mergeable PRs in all module repositories? Or is the maintainer expected to ping people on slack until it gets done?

@pabigot this was discussed in the meeting. The PRs that update modules have corresponding PRs for manifest updates. Release Team should filter these PRs using the "Modules" label which is added when a PR touches .west.yml. We also discussed removing the DNM label from such PRs. But this is something the Release Team should discuss and propose a solution.

Author: addressed

  .. note::

     The merging of pull requests in module repositories shall be coupled

>      with the corresponding manifest file updates in the Zephyr main tree.

Reviewer 6: > This setup would mean that no work on modules branches can happen easily, for example to work on issues which are not to be part of Zephyr's master branch for a while.

I don't follow. People are free to do anything they want in their own forks. Gating the merge to master on CI done on the full Zephyr workspace seems unrelated and unlikely to be a blocker.

>      with the corresponding manifest file updates in the Zephyr main tree.

Reviewer 8: Process of merging PR in the module and update the zephyr manifest should be strictly paired. Not `shall` but `must`. I would rewrite this paragraph for emphasize that any module consist these two linked merging steeps.

>      with the corresponding manifest file updates in the Zephyr main tree.

Author: @aescolar @mbolivar-nordic sorry, of course I meant "pushing to module's main branch". I'll make it more clear.
@nvlsianpu yeap, can change this to "must"

Changed to 
```
    The merging of pull requests in the main branch of a module
     repository must be coupled with the corresponding manifest
     file update in the Zephyr main tree.
```

Maintaining module code base
============================

Updates in the Zephyr main tree, for example, in public Zephyr APIs,
may require patching a module code base. The responsibility for keeping
the module code base up to date is shared between the **contributor** of
such updates in Zephyr and the module **code owner**. In particular:

* the contributor of the original changes in Zephyr is required to submit
  the corresponding patches that are required in module repositories, to
  ensure that Zephyr CI on the pull request with the original changes, as
  well as the module integration testing are successful.

> * the module code owner has the overall responsibility for maintaining
>   the module code base in-synch with the Zephyr main tree, by doing, for
>   example, occassionally, more advance testing of the module code base.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* the module code owner has the overall responsibility for synchronizing
  and testing the module code base with the Zephyr main tree.
  This includes occasional advanced testing of the module code base
  in addition to the testing performed by Zephyr's CI.
```

Author: that's fine. Will apply.

>   The code onwer is required to fix issues in the module code base that

Reviewer 2: s/onwer/owner/

Author: thanks, fixed

  have not been caught by Zephyr pull request CI runs.

  .. note::

    The above polices apply on all Zephyr modules. However, modules which
    Zephyr depends on, for example vendor HALs, are more crucial to be kept

>     up-to-date with Zephyr main tree.

Reviewer 6: What is the value of this note? It seems like it could be deleted.

Author: I guess, stressing that some modules are more important to be kept in-sync, than other modules. Felt it had some value to keep the note.

Contributing changes to modules
===============================

> Changes submitted to a module's code base should be limited to

Author: Well, yeah, but I think it is implicit, since the module repository is the _downstream_ project repository. But I can make it clearer.

> Changes submitted to a module's code base should be limited to

Author: changed to

```
Submitting and merging patches directly to a module's code base, that is,
before they have been merged in the corresponding external project
repository, should be limited to

```

* patches required due to updates in the Zephyr main tree

> * urgent patches, for example those that fix security vulnerability issues,
>   and, therefore, should not wait to be fixed, first, in the external project.

Reviewer 6: As general feedback to this PR, I think it would be clearer to try to write without as many commas.

For example:

```suggestion
* urgent patches that do not need to be merged in the external project
  first, such as fixes to security vulnerabilities
```

Author: The message is not the same here. 
The stress should be that these patches should not wait at all.

Author: changed to:

```
urgent patches that should not wait to be merged in the external project
  first, such as fixes to security vulnerabilities.
```

> Non trivial changes to module code base, including changes in the module
> design or functionality should be discouraged, if the module has an upstream
> project repository. In that case, such changes shall be submitted to the
> upstream project, directly.

Reviewer 6: Similar comment about commas here. Mixing "discouraged" and "shall" is also contradictory.

Something like this may be clearer:

```suggestion
Non-trivial changes to a module's code base are discouraged.
This includes changes to the module's design or functionality.
Such changes should be submitted to the upstream project directly.
```

I don't think it's necessary to say "if the module has an upstream project repository" because it's already established above that zephyr-only code shall not live in a separate module repo.

I'll stop here, but I suggest going through the changes and trying to phrase them as simpler sentences without as many commas. This may help readability for both native and non-native speakers :smile: .

Reviewer 3: I am not sure whether **discouraged** is ok, we should probably now allow that.

We already have experience with tinycbor, where we have used mynewt version as the module, in mynewt it has been part of codebase (a subdirectory), because we needed compatibility with mcumgr.
Because intel/tinycbor has been reluctant to accept changes required by mynewt, mynewt has basically added the features, diverging from intel/tinycbor to such a point that it has been really hard to switch back. 

At the same time some additional features have been implemented by us and finally we end up with fork that has been nightmarish to update from upstream.

Now we have intel/tinycbor fork that in reality has been overwritten with the code from mynewt.

Author: No, we do not want to do that, this was discussed in the meeting.
The reason is that if we accept that the downstream module has functionality that is very different from the upstream, essentially, this is not a zephyr module any more, and the code should be in the main tree.

:ref:`Submitting changes to modules <submitting_new_modules>` describes in
detail the process of contributing changes to module repositories.

Contribution guidelines
-----------------------

Contributing to Zephyr modules shall follow the generic project
:ref:`Contribution guidelines <contribute_guidelines>`.

> **Pull Requests:** may be merged with minimum of 2 approvals, including

Reviewer 7: This requirement is way too tough:
Here there is no need for an actual code review, the code has already been reviewed and merged upstream. If, in the worst case, a review would be needed, a maintainer approval would be more than enough.

Reviewer 3: > This requirement is way too tough

I think that the requirement is general, as the paragraph is not only about already upstream reviewed changes, but also about changes that are `urgent patches, for example those that fix security vulnerability issues (...)`
And those may require more eyes.

Author: Discussed in the meeting, online. Having the same approval policy for PRs across the organization is favorable, in accordance with the voted rules, and increases quality, so we would rather keep this (for the benefits it brings) and try our best with reviewing code more efficiently.

Author: Marking this as resolved, since this has been discussed extensively.

> an approval by the PR assignee. In addition to this, pull requests in module

Author: Yeap, we have the role of Module owner.

repositories may only be merged, if the introduced changes are verified
with Zephyr CI tools, as described in more detail in other sections on
this page.

**Issue Reporting:** intentionally disabled in module repositories, in
favor of a centralized policy for issue reporting. Tickets concerning, for
example, bugs or enhancements in modules shall be opened in the main
Zephyr repository. Issues should be appropriately labeled using Github
labels corresponding to each module, when applicable.

  .. note::

     Bug reports in modules, mirroring upstream project bug reports, are

>      allowed but shall affect the

Reviewer 7: In the slides you said "should not"(?)

Reviewer 2: should be "shall not".  If a module problem affects Zephyr release there should be a tracking issue in the Zephyr repository.

Author: Yeap, that's typo thanks @aescolar @pabigot .
Fixed to "shall not"

     :ref:`Release Quality Criteria<release_quality_criteria>`.

.. _modules_licensing:

Licensing requirements and policies
***********************************

> All source files in a module's code base require to include a license header,

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
All source files in a module's code base shall include a license header,
```

Author: yeap, ok. 
Done.

> unless there exist a **main license file** that covers source files that do

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
unless the module repository has a **main license file** that covers source files that do
```

Author: applied, thanks.

> not possess a license header.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
not include license headers.
```

Author: ok, too.

Main license files shall be added in the module code base by Zephyr
developers, only if they exist as part of the external project,
and they contain a permissive OSI-compliant license. Main license files
should preferably contain a full license text instead of including an
SPDX license identifier. If multiple main license files are present it
shall be made clear which license applies to each source file in a module
code base.

Individual license headers in module source files supersede the main license.

> Any new content to be added in a module repositotry will require to have
> license coverage.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Changes to module repositories shall have license coverage.
```

  .. note::

     Zephyr recommends conveying module licensing via individual license
     headers and main license files. This not a hard requirement; should
     an external project have its own practice of conveying how licensing
     applies in the module code base, this practice may be accepted by and
     be referred to in the Zephyr module, as long as licensing requirement,

>      for example OSI compliance, are satisfied.

Reviewer 6: This directly contradicts the above text, which says:

> All source files in a module's code base require to include a license header [...] unless the module repository has a **main license file**"

If the above text is true, then this **is** a hard requirement and this note is incorrect and should be fixed.

If it's false, then the above text must be fixed to make it clear that it's not required.

Author: Yeah, so the point here @mbolivar-nordic is that we should be flexible with the upstream project, e.g. accepting how they use root license files on their code bases. 
I will rephrase this text to make this more clear.

Author: Added 
```
(for example, by having a single or multiple main license files)
```

in the sentence about how the project can convey the licensing, to clearly indicate that it is about having one or more root license headers (and Zephyr should accept that).

License policies
================

When creating a module repository a developer shall

* import the main license files, if they exist in the external project, and

> * document (for example in the module README or .yml file) the default license

Author: No. the proposal is to have a .yml file in each module repositort, to keep module meta-info (see Documentation), or use the README.

  that covers the module code base.

License checks
--------------

License checks (via CI tools) shall be enabled on every pull request that
adds new content in module repositories.

Documentation requirements
**************************

> All Zephyr module repositories shall include an .rst file documenting

Reviewer 7: This information would as well fit in the Zephyr side.

Say, the west manifest could have extra description and license fields.
For modules which require more glue, extra documentation could be placed next to the glue.

Author: This was discussed in the meeting, thanks a lot, though.
The main reason for doing it in this _distributed_ way is scalability. Each module is responsible for it's one listing of meta- information. Each module Admin or owner is responsible for keeping this single file up to date.

* the scope and the purpose of the module
* how the module integrates with Zephyr
* the code owner of the module repository
* synchronization information with the external project (commit, SHA, version etc.)
* licensing information as described in :ref:`modules_licensing`.

The file shall be required for the inclusion of the module and the contained
information should be kept up to date.

Testing requirements
********************

All Zephyr modules should provide some level of **integration** testing,
ensuring that the integration with Zephyr works correctly.

> Integration tests

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Integration tests:
```

Several bullet lists in this PR do not have a colon (:) in the text introducing them. Can you please check and add the missing colons?

Author: will do, thanks.

* may be in the form of a minimal set of samples and tests that reside
  in the Zephyr main tree
* should verify a basic usage of the module (configuration,
  functional APIs, etc.) that is integrated with Zephyr.
* shall be built and/or executed (for example in QEMU) as part of

>   sanity check runs in pull requests that introduce changes in module

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
  sanitycheck runs in pull requests that introduce changes in module
```

Author: applied

  repositories.

  .. note::

     Vendor HALs are implicitly tested via Zephyr tests built or executed
     on target platforms, so they do not need to provide integration tests.

The purpose of integration testing is not to provide functional verification
of the module; this should be part of the testing framework of the external
project.

Certain external projects provide test suites that reside in the upstream

> testing infrastructure but are written explicitly for Zephyr. These test
> may (but not required to) be part of the Zephyr test framework.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
testing infrastructure but are written explicitly for Zephyr. These tests
may (but are not required to) be part of the Zephyr test framework.
```

Author: applied, thanks.

Deprecating and removing modules
*********************************

Modules may be deprecated for reasons including, but not limited to

> * Lack of maintainer-ship in the module

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* Lack of maintainance
```

Author: yeap, sure.

Author: maintenance*

* Licensing changes in the external project

> * Code base becoming obsolete

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* Obsolescence
```

Author: fine, too.

* Vendor HAL restructuring that impacts the module code base

The module information shall indicate whether a module is
deprecated and the build system shall issue a warning
when trying to build Zephyr using a deprecated module.

> Deprecated modules may be removed after 2 Zephyr releases.

Author: This was discussed in the meeting. Removal, here, will mean: removal from the manifest file. Thanks for the comment.
I can add a sentence about keeping module repositories for as long as possible for older Zephyr versions.

> Some modules manifest reference might be required to be remove immediately (like HAL when vendor migrates from one kind to another).

@nvlsianpu this is really up to the vendor. I 'll try to add a sentence.

> Maybe you can stand here that we should follw API deprecation process.
no we don't want to bind ourselves to that. the 2-release cycle is copying from API, yes, but we don't want to bind to this.

> Deprecated modules may be removed after 2 Zephyr releases.

Author: change added, to indicate removal from manifest.

> Deprecated modules may be removed after 2 Zephyr releases.

Reviewer 8: @ioannisg thanks

repositories may only be merged, if the introduced changes are verified
with Zephyr CI tools, as described in more detail in other sections on
this page.

**Issue Reporting:** intentionally disabled in module repositories, in
favor of a centralized policy for issue reporting. Tickets concerning, for
example, bugs or enhancements in modules shall be opened in the main
Zephyr repository. Issues should be appropriately labeled using Github
labels corresponding to each module, when applicable.

  .. note::

     Bug reports in modules, mirroring upstream project bug reports, are
     allowed but shall not affect the
     :ref:`Release Quality Criteria<release_quality_criteria>`.

.. _modules_licensing:

Licensing requirements and policies
***********************************

All source files in a module's code base shall include a license header,
unless the module repository has **main license file** that covers source
files that do not include license headers.

Main license files shall be added in the module code base by Zephyr
developers, only if they exist as part of the external project,
and they contain a permissive OSI-compliant license. Main license files

> should preferably contain a full license text instead of including an

Reviewer 12: suggest following REUSE guidelines here, rather than creating own conventions.    See: https://reuse.software/spec/#license-files

     be referred to in the Zephyr module, as long as licensing requirement,
     for example OSI compliance, are satisfied.

License policies
================

When creating a module repository a developer shall:

* import the main license files, if they exist in the external project, and
* document (for example in the module README or .yml file) the default license
  that covers the module code base.

License checks
--------------

License checks (via CI tools) shall be enabled on every pull request that
adds new content in module repositories.

Documentation requirements
**************************

All Zephyr module repositories shall include an .rst file documenting:

* the scope and the purpose of the module
* how the module integrates with Zephyr
* the owner of the module repository
* synchronization information with the external project (commit, SHA, version etc.)
* licensing information as described in :ref:`modules_licensing`.

The file shall be required for the inclusion of the module and the contained
information should be kept up to date.

Testing requirements
********************

All Zephyr modules should provide some level of **integration** testing,

> ensuring that the integration with Zephyr works correctly.

Reviewer 12: before they are added to the Zephyr default manifest?

Author: Yes, I can apply that. But I guess this won't be retroactively applied as a requirement for existing modules.

Author: adding this sentence.

  sanitycheck runs in pull requests that introduce changes in module
  repositories.

  .. note::

     Vendor HALs are implicitly tested via Zephyr tests built or executed
     on target platforms, so they do not need to provide integration tests.

The purpose of integration testing is not to provide functional verification
of the module; this should be part of the testing framework of the external
project.

Certain external projects provide test suites that reside in the upstream
testing infrastructure but are written explicitly for Zephyr. These tests
may (but are not required to) be part of the Zephyr test framework.

Deprecating and removing modules
*********************************

Modules may be deprecated for reasons including, but not limited to:

* Lack of maintainer-ship in the module
* Licensing changes in the external project
* Code base becoming obsolete
* Vendor HAL restructuring that impacts the module code base

The module information shall indicate whether a module is
deprecated and the build system shall issue a warning
when trying to build Zephyr using a deprecated module.

Deprecated modules may be removed from the Zephyr default manifest

> after 2 Zephyr releases.

Reviewer 12: What is the criteria for a module to be included in the Zephyr default manifest.    I'm guessing some level of testing is required and test cases be made available, but not seeing it in the above text.

Author: @kestewart at the beginning of this section we list the criteria for an external project to be a candidate for becoming a zephyr module. I guess this implies being included in the manifest.

Zephyr build system, as described in more detail in other sections on
this page.

To be classified as a candidate for being included in the default list of
modules, an external project is required to have its own life-cycle outside
the Zephyr Project, that is, reside in its own repository, and have its own

> contribution and maintainance workfow and release process. Zephyr modules

Author: thanx, fixing it

should not contain code that is written exclusively for Zephyr.

  .. note::

     Code which is written for Zephyr and works exclusively with Zephyr

>      should not be submitted as a Zephyr module; instead, it should be

Author: Yeap, sure. done

     part of the main Zephyr tree.

Modules to be included in the default manifest of the Zephyr project need to

> provide functionality or features endorsed and approved by the project technical

Author: OK

steering committee and should comply with the
:ref:`module licensing requirements<modules_licensing>` and
:ref:`contribute guidelines<modules_contributing>`. They should also have a

> Zephyr developer that is committed to maintain the module code base.

Author: ok

Zephyr depends on several categories of modules, including but not limited to:

- Debugger integration
- Silicon vendor Hardware Abstraction Layers (HALs)
- Cryptography libraries
- File Systems
- Inter-Process Communication (IPC) libraries

This page summarizes a list of policies and best practices which aim at
better organizing the workflow in Zephyr modules.

Module Repositories
*******************

* All modules included in the default manifest shall be hosted in repositories

>   under the zephyrproject-rtos Github organization.

Author: ok

> * The module repository code base shall include a *module.yml* file.

Author: ok

* Module repository names should follow the convention of using lowercase
  letters and dashes instead of underscores. This rule will apply to all
  new module repositories, except for repositories that are directly

>   tracking external projects hosted in Github; such module repositories

Author: It is more essential if the upstream project is on GH, but, sure, it does not matter.
Will change this to "Git"

  may be named as their external project counterparts.

  .. note::

     Existing module repositories that do not conform to the above convention
     do not need to be renamed to comply with the above convention.

* Modules should use "zephyr" as the default name for the repository main
  branch. Branches for specific purposes, for example, a module branch for

>   an LTS Zephyr version, shall have names starting with the 'zephyr\_' prefix.

Author: This was meant to be just an escape character, Carles. I'd rather use only `zephyr_` as the prefix.

> * If the module has an external (upstream) project repository, the module

Author: Yes, that's why it is "should". It is recommendation.

  repository should preserve the upstream repository folder structure.

  .. note::

     It is not required in module repositories to maintain a 'master'
     branch mirroring the master branch of the external repository. It
     is not recommended as this may generate confusion around the module's
     main branch, which should be 'zephyr'.

.. _modules_synchronization:

Synchronizing with upstream
===========================

It is preferred to synchronize a module respository with the latest stable

> release of the respective external project. It is permitted, however, to

Author: done

update a Zephyr module repository with the latest development branch tip,
if this is required to get important updates in the module code base. When

> synchronizing a module with upstream it is mandatory to document the

Author: We settled on the need to have the right information, yes. Not (yet) on a fixed template message format. It is not required to do that now (and get TSC's approval). But we can try to standardize this and document it later. I will make a note.

> synchronizing a module with upstream it is mandatory to document the

Author: Made a note to discuss this in a future meeting.

rationale for performing the particular update.

Requirements for allowed practices
----------------------------------

Changes to the main branch of a module repository, including synchronization
with upstream code base, may only be applied via pull requests. These pull

> requests shall be *verifiable* by Zephyr CI and *mergeable* (e.g. with *Rebase

Author: ok

> & Merge*, or *Create a Merge Commit* option using Github UI). This ensures that

Author: thanks

the incoming changes are always **reviewable**, and the  *downstream* module
repository history is incremental and always preserved (that is, it is never

> re-written). This policy also allows to run Zephyr CI, git lint, identity, and

Author: I am talking about downstream history, up to the point of the new sync. Yes, I agree, this needs a bit more clarification.

> re-written). This policy also allows to run Zephyr CI, git lint, identity, and

Author: rewritten this a little bit to stress that we do not re-write history wrt existing commits, SHAs, tags, etc.

license checks directly on the set of changes that are to be brought into the
module repository.

.. note::

     Force-pushing to a module's main branch is not allowed.

Allowed practices
---------------------

The following practices conform to the above requirements and should be
followed in all modules repositories. It is up to the module code owner
to select the preferred synchronization practice, however, it is required
that the selected practice is consistently followed in the respective
module repository.

**Updating modules with a diff from upstream:**
Upstream changes brought as a single *snapshot* commit (manual diff) in a
pull request against the module's main branch. This approach is simple and
should be applicable to all modules with the downside of supressing the

> upstream history in the module repository.

Author: ok

  .. note::

     The above practice is the only allowed practice in modules where

>      the external project is not hosted in an upstream Git repository.

Author: Why? I am saying it is the only allowed practice in some cases. It is applicable to all cases.

>      the external project is not hosted in an upstream Git repository.

Reviewer 5: OK, fair enough

> The commit message is expected to identify the upstream repository, the

Author: OK, that should be URL then , thanks.

> The commit message is expected to identify the upstream repository, the

Author: done

> version to which the module is updated (upstream version, tag, commit,

Author: Again, this is generic text for the snapshot approach which may be applicable to modules with upstream GH repos, as well

etc.), and the reason for the doing the update.

> **Updating modules by merging the upstream main branch:**

Author: Agreed

> **Updating modules by merging the upstream main branch:**

Author: Changed to:

```
Upstream changes brought in by performing a Git merge of the desired upstream 
branch (e.g. main branch, latest release branch, etc.) submitting the result in
pull request against the module main branch.

```

Upstream changes brought in by performing a Git merge of the upstream main
branch submitting the result in pull request against the module main branch.
This approach is applicable to modules with an upstream project Git repository.
The main advantages of this approach is that the upstream repository history
(that is, the original commit SHAs) is preserved in the module repository. The

> downside of this approach is that an additional merge commit is generated in

Author: Sure, no problem with that.

> downside of this approach is that an additional merge commit is generated in

Author: done

the downstream main branch.

Contributing to Zephyr modules
******************************

.. _modules_contributing:

Individual Roles & Responsibilities
===================================

To facilitate management of Zephyr module repositories, the following
individual roles are defined.

**Administrator:** Each Zephyr module shall have an administrator
who is responsible for managing access to the module repository,
for example, for adding individuals as Collaborators in the repository
at the request of the module owner. Module administrators are
members of the Administrators team, that is a group of project

> members with admin rights to Module Github repositories.

Author: ok

**Module owner:** Each module shall have a module code owner. Module
owners will have the overall responsibility of the contents of a
Zephyr module repository. In particular, a module owner will:

> * coordinate code reviewing in the module repository

Author: I guess the extra context here is that the Owner will moderate the code reviewing (besides being Assignee and requesting code reviews).
Yes, it might overlap a bit, but no real harm keeping it for now, as this is what we agreed upon :)

* be the default assignee in pull-requests against the repository's
  main branch
* request additional collaborators to be added to the repository, as
  they see fit
* regularly synchronize the module repository with its upstream
  counterpart following the policies described in
  :ref:`modules_synchronization`
* be aware of security vulnerability issues in the external project
  and update the module repository to include security fixes, as
  soon as the fixes are available in the upstream code base
* list any known security vulnerability issues, present in the
  module code base, in Zephyr release notes.

  .. note::

     Module owners are not required to be Zephyr
     :ref:`Maintainers <project_roles>`.

**Merger:** The Zephyr Release Engineering team has the right and the
responsibility to merge approved pull requests in the main branch of a
module repository.

  .. note::

>      The merging of pull requests in the main branch of a module

Author: I moved it to the section where we talk about Pull Requests to modules (Contribution Guidelines)
thanks

     repository must be coupled with the corresponding manifest

>      file update in the Zephyr main tree.

Author: agreed

> Maintaining module code base

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Maintaining the module's codebase
```

Author: ok

============================

> Updates in the Zephyr main tree, for example, in public Zephyr APIs,

Reviewer 5: This reminds me, we haven't captured the fact that we'd like glue code to live in the main zephyr tree in this PR, will this be done in a separate PR?

Author: Yes!

Author: Made a note for this. Will be done in future amending of this doc.

> may require patching a module code base. The responsibility for keeping

Author: ok

the module code base up to date is shared between the **contributor** of
such updates in Zephyr and the module **owner**. In particular:

* the contributor of the original changes in Zephyr is required to submit

>   the corresponding patches that are required in module repositories, to

Author: Well, I alter between these terms. I mostly use Pull Requests, yes. Changed to "changes"

  ensure that Zephyr CI on the pull request with the original changes, as
  well as the module integration testing are successful.

* the module owner has the overall responsibility for synchronizing
  and testing the module code base with the Zephyr main tree.

>   This includes occasional advanced testing of the module code base

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  This includes occasional advanced testing of the module's codebase
```

Author: ok

  in addition to the testing performed by Zephyr's CI.

>   The module owner is required to fix issues in the module code base that

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  The module owner is required to fix issues in the module's codebase that
```

Author: ok

  have not been caught by Zephyr pull request CI runs.

>   .. note::

Reviewer 5: I would remove this note. Even non-crucial modules will make CI fail and prevent a PR in the main tree from being merged. They all have some sort of integration tests.

Author: OK fair point, I am removing this.

>     The above polices apply on all Zephyr modules. However, modules which

Author: thanks

    Zephyr depends on, for example vendor HALs, are more crucial to be kept
    up-to-date with Zephyr main tree.

Contributing changes to modules
===============================

> Submitting and merging patches directly to a module's code base, that is,

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Submitting and merging patches directly to a module's codebase, that is,
```

Author: ok

before they have been merged in the corresponding external project
repository, should be limited to:

> * patches required due to updates in the Zephyr main tree

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* patches required due to updates in the zephyr main tree
```

Author: ok

* urgent patches that should not wait to be merged in the external project
  first, such as fixes to security vulnerabilities.

> Non trivial changes to module code base, including changes in the module

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Non-trivial changes to a module's codebase, including changes in the module
```

Author: ok

design or functionality should be discouraged, if the module has an upstream
project repository. In that case, such changes shall be submitted to the
upstream project, directly.

:ref:`Submitting changes to modules <submitting_new_modules>` describes in
detail the process of contributing changes to module repositories.

Contribution guidelines
-----------------------

Contributing to Zephyr modules shall follow the generic project
:ref:`Contribution guidelines <contribute_guidelines>`.

**Pull Requests:** may be merged with minimum of 2 approvals, including
an approval by the PR assignee. In addition to this, pull requests in module

> repositories may only be merged, if the introduced changes are verified

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
repositories may only be merged if the introduced changes are verified
```

Author: ok

with Zephyr CI tools, as described in more detail in other sections on
this page.

> **Issue Reporting:** intentionally disabled in module repositories, in

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
**Issue Reporting:** GitHub issues are intentionally disabled in module repositories, in
```

Author: ok

favor of a centralized policy for issue reporting. Tickets concerning, for
example, bugs or enhancements in modules shall be opened in the main

> Zephyr repository. Issues should be appropriately labeled using Github

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
zephyr repository. Issues should be appropriately labeled using GitHub
```

Author: ok

> labels corresponding to each module, when applicable.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
labels corresponding to each module, where applicable.
```

Author: ok

  .. note::

>      Bug reports in modules, mirroring upstream project bug reports, are

Reviewer 5: What do you mean here? I did not understand this

Author: Thanks
Changed to
```

     It is allowed to file bug reports for zephyr modules to track
     the corresponding upstream project bugs in Zephyr.
```

     allowed but shall not affect the
     :ref:`Release Quality Criteria<release_quality_criteria>`.

.. _modules_licensing:

Licensing requirements and policies
***********************************

> All source files in a module's code base shall include a license header,

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
All source files in a module's codebase shall include a license header,
```

Author: ok

unless the module repository has **main license file** that covers source
files that do not include license headers.

> Main license files shall be added in the module code base by Zephyr

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Main license files shall be added in the module codebase by Zephyr
```

Author: ok

> developers, only if they exist as part of the external project,

Reviewer 5: Instead of "by Zephyr developers" perhaps we should say "by the module owner"?

Author: Did not want to restrict this too much. Might be others than the owner of the module that can do the work.

and they contain a permissive OSI-compliant license. Main license files

> should preferably contain a full license text instead of including an

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
should preferably contain the full license text instead of including an
```

Author: ok

SPDX license identifier. If multiple main license files are present it

> shall be made clear which license applies to each source file in a module

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
shall be made clear which license applies to each source file in a module's
```

Author: ok

> code base.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
codebase.
```

Author: ok

Individual license headers in module source files supersede the main license.

Any new content to be added in a module repository will require to have
license coverage.

  .. note::

     Zephyr recommends conveying module licensing via individual license
     headers and main license files. This not a hard requirement; should
     an external project have its own practice of conveying how licensing

>      applies in the module code base (for example, by having a single or

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
     applies in the module's codebase (for example, by having a single or
```

Author: ok

     multiple main license files), this practice may be accepted by and

>      be referred to in the Zephyr module, as long as licensing requirement,

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
     be referred to in the Zephyr module, as long as licensing requirements,
```

Author: ok

     for example OSI compliance, are satisfied.

License policies
================

When creating a module repository a developer shall:

* import the main license files, if they exist in the external project, and
* document (for example in the module README or .yml file) the default license

>   that covers the module code base.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  that covers the module's codebase.
```

Author: ok

License checks
--------------

License checks (via CI tools) shall be enabled on every pull request that
adds new content in module repositories.

Documentation requirements
**************************

All Zephyr module repositories shall include an .rst file documenting:

* the scope and the purpose of the module
* how the module integrates with Zephyr
* the owner of the module repository
* synchronization information with the external project (commit, SHA, version etc.)
* licensing information as described in :ref:`modules_licensing`.

The file shall be required for the inclusion of the module and the contained
information should be kept up to date.

Testing requirements
********************

All Zephyr modules should provide some level of **integration** testing,
ensuring that the integration with Zephyr works correctly.
Integration tests:

* may be in the form of a minimal set of samples and tests that reside
  in the Zephyr main tree

> * should verify a basic usage of the module (configuration,

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* should verify basic usage of the module (configuration,
```

Author: ok

  functional APIs, etc.) that is integrated with Zephyr.
* shall be built and executed (for example in QEMU) as part of
  sanitycheck runs in pull requests that introduce changes in module
  repositories.

  .. note::

>      New candidate modules shall provide some level of integration testing

Reviewer 5: testing to be included in the manifest? This needs rephrasing I think

Author: Changed to:

```
     New modules, that are candidates for being included in the Zephyr default manifest,
     shall provide some level of integration testing.
```

     to be included in the Zephyr default manifest.

  .. note::

>      Vendor HALs are implicitly tested via Zephyr tests built or executed

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
     Vendor HALs are implicitly tested via Zephyr driver tests built or executed
```

Author: Changed to:

```
     New modules, that are candidates for being included in the Zephyr default manifest,
     shall provide some level of integration testing.
```

Author: no, that should include ARCHitecture and Kernel and Lib tests.

     on target platforms, so they do not need to provide integration tests.

The purpose of integration testing is not to provide functional verification
of the module; this should be part of the testing framework of the external
project.

Certain external projects provide test suites that reside in the upstream
testing infrastructure but are written explicitly for Zephyr. These tests
may (but are not required to) be part of the Zephyr test framework.

Deprecating and removing modules
*********************************

Modules may be deprecated for reasons including, but not limited to:

> * Lack of maintainer-ship in the module

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Lack of maintainership in the module
```

Author: ok

* Licensing changes in the external project

> * Code base becoming obsolete

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Codebase becoming obsolete
```

Author: ok

> * Vendor HAL restructuring that impacts the module code base

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Vendor HAL restructuring that impacts the module's codebase
```

Author: ok

> * Vendor HAL restructuring that impacts the module code base

Reviewer 5: What does this mean exactly?

Author: Well it means that the vendor hal may restructure completely the external project so that a module codebase may become obsolete (e.g. it may be offered as part of a new or another module). I guess it falls into the bullet _above_
Will remove.

The module information shall indicate whether a module is
deprecated and the build system shall issue a warning
when trying to build Zephyr using a deprecated module.

Deprecated modules may be removed from the Zephyr default manifest
after 2 Zephyr releases.

  .. note::

>      Repositories of removed modules remain accessible in their original URL,

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
     Repositories of removed modules shall remain accessible via their original URL,
```

Author: ok

>      should not be submitted as a Zephyr module; instead, it should be

Reviewer 13: typo in commit msg s/paragrapg/paragraph

Author: appreciate early feedback :)

Reviewer 3: I understand that with the existing modules (e.g. mcumg) we would need to move the zephyr code out of them into the zephyr source tree?
Or you mean that modules that are consist of 100% zephyr should be part of zephyr rather than modules?

**Administration:** Each Zephyr module shall have an administrator
who is responsible for managing access to the module repository,
for example, for adding individuals as Collaborators in the module
at the request of the module Code Owners. Module administrators are
members of the Administrators' team, that is a group of project
members with admin rights to Module Github repositories.

**Code ownership:** Each module shall have a code owner. Module code
owners will have the overall responsibility of the contents of a
module reponsitory. In particular, a module code owner will

* coordinate code reviewing in the module repository
* be the default assignee in pull-requests against the repository's
  main branch
* request additional collaborators to be added to the repository, as
  they see fit
* regularly synchronize the module repository with its upstream
  counterpart.

  .. note::

     Module Code Owners are not necessary Zephyr Maintainers.

**Merging:** The Zephyr Release Engineering Team has the right and the
responsibility to merge pull requests in the main branch of a module
repository.

  .. note::

     The merging of pull requests in module repositories shall be coupled

>      with the corresponding manifest fiel updates in the Zephyr main tree.

Reviewer 14: s/fiel/file/

Author: fixed, thanks

This page summarizes a list of policies and best practices which aim at
better organizing the workflow in Zephyr modules.

Module Repositories
*******************

* All modules included in the default manifest shall be hosted in repositories
  under the zephyrproject-rtos Github organization.

* The module repository code base shall include a *module.yml* file.

* Module repository names should follow the convention of using lowercase
  letters and dashes instead of underscores. This rule will apply to all
  new module repositories, except for repositories that are directly
  tracking external projects hosted in Github; such module repositories
  may be named as their external project counterparts.

  .. note::

     Existing module repositories that do not conform to the above convention
     do not need to be renamed to comply with the above convention.

* Modules should use "zephyr" as the default name for the repository main
  branch. Branches for specific purposes, for example, a module branch for
  an LTS Zephyr version, shall have names starting with the 'zephyr\_' prefix.

* If the module has an external (upstream) project repository, the module

>   repository should preserve the upstream repository folder structure.

Reviewer: Doers it mean that the whole upstream project should be replicated, even files with no interest for Zephyr (utilities, middleware, ... in case of vendor HALs for instance)?

Reviewer: Also, does it apply to existing module repositories ? If not, can it be mentioned ?

Author: No, but the folder structure should be intact, so Git should work OK. It's OK for certain files or directories to be skipped but not moved or re-shuffled.

Author: It does apply to existing repositories, but it is a recommendation (should) so I don't think we need a sentence here :)

     Bug reports in modules, mirroring upstream project bug reports, are
     allowed but shall not block Zephyr releases.

Licensing requirements and policies
***********************************

.. _modules_licensing:

All source files in a module's code base require to include a license header,
unless there exist a **main license file** that covers the un-licensed files.

Main license files shall be added in the module code base by Zephyr
developers; instead, only if they exist, as part of the external project

> and they contain a permissive OSI-compliant license. Main license files

Reviewer 13: I am not a native English speaker so perhaps this sounds correct to native one but I have difficulty understanding what this sentence is actually saying. Could this one simplified a bit?

Author: Yeap, fixed that as well (removed "instead"). thank you

     :ref:`Release Quality Criteria<release_quality_criteria>`.

.. _modules_licensing:

Licensing requirements and policies
***********************************

All source files in a module's code base shall include a license header,
unless the module repository has **main license file** that covers source
files that do not include license headers.

Main license files shall be added in the module code base by Zephyr
developers, only if they exist as part of the external project,
and they contain a permissive OSI-compliant license. Main license files
should preferably contain a full license text instead of including an
SPDX license identifier. If multiple main license files are present it
shall be made clear which license applies to each source file in a module
code base.

Individual license headers in module source files supersede the main license.

> Any new content to be added in a module repositotry will require to have

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any new content to be added in a module repository will require to have
```

Author: thanks will fix.

adds new content in module repositories.

Documentation requirements
**************************

All Zephyr module repositories shall include an .rst file documenting

* the scope and the purpose of the module
* how the module integrates with Zephyr
* the code owner of the module repository
* synchronization information with the external project (commit, SHA, version etc.)
* licensing information as described in :ref:`modules_licensing`.

The file shall be required for the inclusion of the module and the contained
information should be kept up to date.

Testing requirements
********************

All Zephyr modules should provide some level of **integration** testing,
ensuring that the integration with Zephyr works correctly.
Integration tests

* may be in the form of a minimal set of samples and tests that reside
  in the Zephyr main tree
* should verify a basic usage of the module (configuration,
  functional APIs, etc.) that is integrated with Zephyr.

> * shall be built and/or executed (for example in QEMU) as part of

Author: yeap, that's right. Will change and/or to and. I think the message is conveyed, anyways.
